[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: The more
crowded and stressed we feel,
the more nature's call
begins to have a lure.
Sitting under the stars,
kayaking on the river,
or listening to the
morning's bird song,
nature is one of the
only certain forces
that can soothe and heal.
Yet many of us feel
intimidated to merge with it,
its animals in particular.
Tamarack Song is here today to
share his lifetime of wisdom
in "Becoming Nature," which is
also the title of your book.
And you have such a
lovely countenance.
Everybody here in the
studio was saying,
I can't wait to hear
him speak, because you
have this very obviously clear
way about you that obviously
has to do with having
merged with nature, right?
>> TAMARACK SONG: Well,
what a compliment.
I think we all have it.
We've just lost touch with it.
And that's what we're going
to be talking about today.
>> REGINA: Yes, let's talk about
you and your early childhood,
where you grew up in
quite a wild environment.
And I would like,
if you don't mind,
to share with us a little
personal story about a pigeon,
a guy named Sue, just to start.
>> SONG: Yeah.
That's a good start because
of my relationship with birds
and my relationship
with animals in general.
I grew up very traumatized
in my childhood.
A distant father,
emotionally unavailable.
I watched the rape of a
close family member, which I
can't disclose on the air here.
School was very
traumatizing for me.
If I was born in
this generation,
I probably would have
been diagnosed with ADHD.
The nuns were constantly
hammering at me
to stay in the desk, to do what
I was told, to listen rather
than speak, to be uncreative,
just to regurgitate
what was given to me.
So my refuge was nature.
And it's interesting, because
I didn't see it as a refuge.
The animals, the plants, they
were my sisters and brothers.
They were my kin, literally.
I felt at home with them.
I felt relationship.
>> REGINA: And continue on with
your dad and this thing that
happened.
>> SONG: Yeah.
This was a very traumatizing
experience for me.
I was I think eight
years old, and I went out
to visit a farm friend.
I grew up in a
small farming town,
and my backyard was the
woods and the swamps
and the fields, the prairies.
>> REGINA: Northern Wisconsin.
>> SONG: Northern Wisconsin.
>> REGINA: You know, most
people Wisconsin, cheese, dairy.
The cheese heads.
>> SONG: Right.
Right.
>> REGINA: No, this isn't
the cheese heads territory.
>> SONG: No.
No cows in northern Wisconsin.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> SONG: So I went
out to his farm.
This is before we
moved further north.
And there was a pigeon
nest up in the silo.
And a young pigeon
fell out of the nest,
and it was going to die.
And they didn't have any
time to raise pigeons.
They were farmers.
So he asked me if I'd like
to take the pigeon home.
And my dad,
miraculously, said yes,
because he said no to dogs.
He said no to cats.
He said no to bringing-- well,
I could bring frogs and turtles
home.
That was OK, because
he knew they weren't--
>> REGINA: Low maintenance.
>> SONG: Low maintenance, right.
You got it.
Tropical fish were OK,
but no big animals.
And he said yes to this
pigeon, and I found out later
that it was because he raised
pigeons when he was a child.
So we had some resonance there.
And this pigeon, I
thought was a female.
I raised the pigeon, and
we bonded very closely.
He would-- he would
follow me to school.
And he would land
on my shoulder.
And I would walk
around town, and people
would be amazed that there
was this pigeon sitting
on my shoulder.
And there was feminine energy
there, so I named her Susie.
And she turned out to be a male.
She was a boy named Sue.
>> REGINA: A boy named Sue.
>> SONG: Right.
Right.
And I developed this very
close affinity with Susie,
and with another pigeon
I caught in a coal barn.
And I raised them together.
And a couple years
later my dad said
you have to get
rid of the pigeons.
And--
>> REGINA: Why all the sudden
did you have to get rid
of them?
>> SONG: My dad
was an alcoholic.
I couldn't understand it.
We couldn't
rationalize about it.
>> REGINA: He just made
his mind up, no pigeons.
>> SONG: But he was an autocrat.
It's just pigeons have to go.
So I sold quote unquote sold
the pigeons to a neighbor who
lived a couple houses down.
And he was going to keep
them, and I could come over
anytime to see them.
Well, a couple weeks
later I went over
and there was no Susie
and there was no Jimmy.
>> REGINA: Were they
flying to see you?
I mean, did the birds
try to find you?
>> SONG: They would
fly back and forth,
but Susie found a mate over
at this neighbor's house.
So Susie--
>> REGINA: Oh, that trumps you.
>> SONG: Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
Yeah, we were still friends.
We were still close.
But--
>> REGINA: She had
a real partner.
>> SONG: She had a real partner.
Right.
>> REGINA: Or he
had a real partner.
>> SONG: Yeah.
Yeah, quote unquote she.
So I went over one day and
all the birds were gone.
And I asked what happened?
What happened with
Susie and Jimmy?
What happened to all your birds?
I was probably 10
years old at the time.
And my neighbor didn't
want to tell me.
And it was snowing then.
The snow was getting deep.
And I was playing in the
fence row in the field behind,
and I saw some
disturbance in the snow.
And I kicked around,
and I came up
with these birds,
these headless birds.
And there were
various colored birds.
They were pigeons, I knew that.
They were old.
And I looked, and I
thought, probably this bird
is the color of Susie,
but he's so small
and he's all shriveled up.
This can't be Susie.
But in my heart, I
knew that was Susie.
>> REGINA: And what did
that do to you at that time?
I mean, it had to
be a complex series
of responses and reactions,
emotions going on.
>> SONG: Yeah, first
was deep sorrow.
Then anger, then resentment.
The whole spectrum of
feelings, it was all there.
I was so immersed in this
life with not only with Susie
and Jimmy, but they
were representative
of my relationship with nature.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> SONG: And this was a
tremendous blow to me,
because nature was my refuge.
I didn't know where to turn.
I could not talk with
my parents about it,
because my dad said
they have to go,
you know, your relationship
with pigeons is done.
And I couldn't talk
with my friends
about it, who had taken
over the caretakership,
so I just retreated all
the more into nature.
And again, I did not
see it as a retreat.
I saw it as a homecoming.
>> REGINA: Right.
As a natural place for you.
>> SONG: Yeah.
>> REGINA: What did you learn
from your relationship with
Susie and Jimmy?
>> SONG: I learned about
the value of relationship,
especially in later life.
I was able to start
attaching words
to what relationship
meant to me.
In my early 20s,
I was frustrated.
I was in my first marriage
and it was not working well.
I had three businesses I
was running simultaneously.
>> REGINA: What
kind of businesses?
>> SONG: I had a record shop.
I had a waterbed store.
And I had a restaurant.
>> REGINA: Wow.
>> SONG: Yeah.
I was busy.
>> REGINA: That's
quite a schedule, yeah.
>> SONG: Yeah.
I did it all to be
able to fund my escape
from the dominant culture.
And I was running
these businesses,
and it was frustrating for me
to have to work with the powers
that be.
The restaurant business, I
don't recommend it for anybody
unless you really love--
>> REGINA: Pressure.
>> SONG: Oh, it's tremendous.
It's tremendous.
You don't just order your
stock and put it on the shelf.
You have to take
care of that stock.
You have health
inspectors coming
who are going to make sure
you take care of that stock.
You have to deliver
it to your customers
in a way that is presentable,
safe, and efficient.
>> REGINA: You have to deal with
some of the chefs and cooks who
can come and go and have very
temperamental dispositions.
>> SONG: Exactly.
So I learned to put
on a plastic face.
I couldn't be myself.
It was nothing like
my relationship
with plants and
animals in the woods.
So at a very young
age, at age 10,
I was starting to
learn that I had
to put on this plastic
face in order to survive.
I had to go to school.
I had to live with my parents.
I had to deal with my neighbors,
whether they killed my best
friends or not.
There I was.
So I learned to
create a facade that
would be acceptable
to the greater
number of people around me.
And in my early 20s,
I had the opportunity
to rescue four wolf pups.
And I built-- I was living
in the country then,
and I built a large enclosure
that came right up to my house,
because I wanted to be a
part of this wolf pack.
I had studied wolves
in college, and I
knew that they were
going to evolve a pack.
Their pack instincts were
imprinted in their DNA.
It didn't matter whether their
parents raised them or not.
So I raised these wolf
pups from 11 days of age
when they were not
able to see yet.
So when they opened their eyes,
I was mom and dad to them.
>> REGINA: Had their mother
been killed or disappeared, or--
>> SONG: No, that's
another sad story.
>> REGINA: OK.
All right.
>> SONG: Yeah.
Do you want to hear it?
I'll--
>> REGINA: Yeah, go ahead.
>> SONG: --tell you.
I was running my record
store at the time,
and I named it Freedom
Record Shop, because this
was my gateway to freedom.
And I had close relationships
with a lot of my customers.
And they would come in, and we
would talk about our adventures
out in the woods and wilds.
And one of my customers
came in and he told me
about a trip he had just
taken up north, a weekend
trip in northern Wisconsin.
And back then-- this was
back in the mid to late 70s--
there were little roadside
zoos that had some deer.
There was a petting zoo.
Maybe they had some goats
and sheep and some raccoons.
Just representative wild
animals from the north woods.
And you could go,
and you could buy
some popcorn to feed the bear,
and all that sort of thing.
And he said that he
stopped at this one
zoo that had a pair of wolves,
and they just had pups.
And that piqued my
interest right away,
because from my
earliest memories,
I had this fascination
with wolves,
because they were the
symbol of the wilds.
There were no wolves
left in Wisconsin,
but I felt the
spirit of wolf yet.
I knew they were there.
So when he told me about this
pair of wolves with pups,
I had to go right up
there and see them and see
what was going on.
I went up, and I
talked with Jim,
who was the owner and
manager of the zoo.
And he told me that the
pups had to be taken away
from the parents, because
the pair was in a small pen
and it was just pitiful.
The female was laying
there in the mud.
There was literally mud, because
the wolves, the pair-- it
was about a 12 by 12 foot pen.
And the pair just pranced back
and forth and back and forth.
>> REGINA: Paced, yeah.
>> SONG: Yeah.
They were so stressed.
It was actually
prancing, not pacing.
They would prance.
There was so much
pent up energy there.
It was so sad to see it.
She was exhausted.
She was laying there.
You could see she
had been nursing
and she was traumatized.
Her pups were just taken
away from her the day
before I got there.
And the male was
no longer prancing.
He was just standing
there over her panting.
And it was a pitiful sight.
So I asked what
happened to the pups,
and he took me in
the house and took me
into the bathroom of all places.
I didn't expect to see
wolf pups in the bathroom,
but there in the bathroom
tub were four wolf pups.
And they had pink
and blue ribbons
tied around their necks.
He had two daughters, probably
10 and 12 years of age,
and they adopted
the pups right away.
And they were taking care of--
>> REGINA: Puppies.
>> SONG: Yeah.
They were their
little puppies, yeah.
They were bottle feeding them.
And I asked what was going
to happen to the pups.
And Jim said that
he wasn't sure.
They were taking
off for the weekend,
and he didn't have anyone
to take care of the pups.
And he didn't know what he was
going to do with them anyway.
I asked if he might like to
sell them, and he said maybe.
You know you have to have a
federal permit to keep wolves.
You have to have
a regulation pen.
And I said, yeah, you know I
was a wildlife conservationist
in college, and I'll take
care of all the requirements.
How much would
you like for them?
And he quoted me a price.
I at first was just
interested in one,
and he quoted me a
price for one pup.
And then I realized that these
pups have to stay together.
It's all they have.
They just have each other.
So I offered him half the
price he asked per pup,
and he took it right away.
He wanted to get
rid of those pups.
>> REGINA: What
happened to the parents?
>> SONG: I don't know.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
What would have happened
had he just let them go?
>> SONG: They would
probably not have survived.
They were-- there's
an interesting story
behind the parents.
You may not be old enough to
remember the Walt Disney show.
Back when Disneyland
was on the air,
there was a show called "Lobo."
And it was purportedly
the filming
of a wild pair of wolves,
but what Disney did
was to hire a team of trappers
to trap a pair of wild wolves
and put them in an enclosure.
And that's where
they were filmed.
And this pair was
the result of that.
>> REGINA: Oh.
OK.
>> SONG: And what happened
to them after I left,
I don't know.
>> REGINA: Right.
OK.
So now you have four wolf pups.
>> SONG: Now I have
four wolf pups.
And they imprinted
on me right away.
They accepted me as
their pack leader.
I was their mother and father.
And I remained their pack
leader for the first two
years we were together.
After that, I think
it was voluntary.
I don't quite remember, but I
ended up being one of the pack.
And one of the pups
was an alpha male.
Wolves are all genetically
programmed to perform
different roles within the pack.
There are three
archetypes, which
we humans manifest as well.
There are nurturers, there are
leads, and there are guardians.
And the lead male started
asserting his dominance.
And I accepted that.
I was--
>> REGINA: What's
that look like?
What did he start doing?
>> SONG: He started-- he was
the smaller of the two males,
actually.
He weighed about 70 pounds.
His brother weighed 110
pounds, but the 70- pound male
dominated easily because of
his demeanor, his stature.
The big male would-- the rough
on his neck would lay flat.
He would keep his
ears down whenever
he was in the presence
of his smaller brother.
His tail would be
down and tucked in.
>> REGINA: Subservient.
>> SONG: Subservience, yeah.
Just the same as you
see in dogs, actually.
And the dominant male had
his tail up and arched.
His ears were perked.
He was standing up on his
toes, just very assertive,
very present, right there.
Right in your face, if need be.
>> REGINA: And so with you,
you just started noticing these
postures and realized
the time had come.
>> SONG: Yes.
Yeah.
And I assumed my role.
>> REGINA: And your role was--
>> SONG: As a subservient
male in the pack.
>> REGINA: So how
does that play out?
Tell us what's that's like
as a human among them.
>> SONG: Well, the story
behind that story is that
my relationship with humans was
very dysfunctional at the time.
I was struggling with
my employees at work.
I was struggling with my wife.
And I would bring this-- when I
spent time with the wolf pack,
I would bring this to them.
And they would not accept it.
They would see right through me.
They would see right
through the plastic face
that I had worn all day.
And it's funny, because I would
go through the same posturings
I did, because I'm a creature
of habit and pattern,
the same thing I
did with a human.
>> REGINA: So you
were the alpha.
>> SONG: Yeah.
I was the alpha.
You know, I was the
alpha with them,
and I was the store manager.
I owned the businesses.
I called the shots.
They saw right through me.
And what was even more important
was the secondary emotions
that they picked up.
It wasn't just whether I
was an alpha or a beta male.
It was how I was feeling.
It was my emotions.
It was my psycho-emotional
state that they
were able to read so easily.
>> REGINA: And how did
they respond to that level
of frustration?
>> SONG: Well, if I came and
I was sad, they would whimper.
They would whine.
They would come
and lick my face.
They would console me.
Even though I painted a
happy face when I went in,
they saw right through it.
And I would just come
to tears sometimes,
because they were
so real with me.
I feel like coming to tears now.
Those times just
come back to me.
>> REGINA: Because they could
see you where humans couldn't.
>> SONG: Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
>> REGINA: That's beautiful.
And so how long did this
relationship go on with them?
>> SONG: For five years.
>> REGINA: Then what happened?
>> SONG: I ran into a little
trouble with the authorities.
>> REGINA: Animal control?
>> SONG: Animal control.
Yes.
>> REGINA: Oh, goodness.
>> SONG: Yeah.
I wanted to reintroduce
them into the wilds,
or at least reintroduce their
offspring into the wilds.
Attitudes were
changing toward wolves.
Wildernesses were being
established around the country
and in the state of Wisconsin.
And there was talk
of reintroducing
the apex predators, one
of which was wolves.
And I bought a
large tract of land,
almost a square mile of land,
up in northern Wisconsin.
And I was going to fence
the whole thing in and allow
the pack to run
in there, in order
to raise pups that would
not be imprinted on humans.
So that they could
learn to hunt,
I would release live animals
in there for them to hunt.
And when the youngsters were
ready to go out on their own,
I would open up the gate.
And they would just go
and acclimate themselves
to the wilds.
Well, I thought
it would really be
good to get some publicity
for this program,
because it was going
to cost a lot of money.
I needed almost four
miles' worth of fencing.
And I thought there would
be a lot of interest in it.
And there was.
And there was also
a lot of reaction,
a lot of reactiveness.
I got anonymous phone calls.
The people who were living
adjacent to the area
that I had purchased
told me that if I
brought the wolves
up, they were going
to poison them immediately.
>> REGINA: Because they were
afraid that they were a threat
to their animals and--
>> SONG: And their children.
>> REGINA: And their children.
>> SONG: They were convinced
these wolves were going
to break out and eat their kids.
>> REGINA: Well, that's
what fairy tales tell us.
>> SONG: That's what
fairy tales tell us, yeah.
Yeah.
So I had some friends
who shared the same dream
as I did to reintroduce
wolves into the wilds.
And I gave them the wolves.
They lived 150 miles away.
They were out of the viewing
range of the television
network that aired the program.
And they adopted the wolves.
And they were working
on the same schematic
that I had laid down.
And they ran into
the same problem,
only with their
immediate neighbors.
It was hunting season,
deer hunting season,
and 12 hunters walked up their
driveway with their guns.
They had just come from the bar.
They were out hunting
early in the morning.
And they were going
to confront him,
because they had the same fear.
They were afraid the wolves
were going to get out and eat
their dogs and their kids.
And my friend had a shotgun.
He came out and he met
him with a shotgun.
And he laid it over the
hood of his pickup truck,
and he said stop right there.
And fortunately enough,
they were sober enough
to listen and heed, and
they turned around and left.
However, they called the DNR.
And the DNR said,
hey, you know, you're
completely in your rights.
Everything is legal here.
However, we're really concerned
because of a volatile situation
here.
Somebody's going to get hurt.
So the DNR wanted to confiscate
the wolves, and he agreed.
And the wolf pack was split up.
And they were dispersed to
various zoos around the state.
And I hatched to plan right
away to spring the wolves,
but I realized I was
just going to get myself
and the wolves in trouble.
>> REGINA: In more trouble.
Yeah.
>> SONG: Yeah.
>> REGINA: What is the
truth about the wolves?
When the people were afraid
they would eat their dogs
and eat their
children and so forth,
what is the truth about how
wolves function and would have
functioned in that environment?
>> SONG: Those wolves
were imprinted on humans.
It's very unlikely
that they would
hurt a human unless they felt
an infringement on their pact
territory.
Other than that,
wolves are shadows.
They just disappear.
They do not look
for confrontation.
They kill only to eat,
or primarily to eat.
I have seen a couple
of cases where
wolves kill a
second animal where
it is not necessary to
kill the second animal.
But predators are
basically lazy.
Dogs.
Dogs with full bellies
will lay around
in the sun and just sleep.
Anyone who has a
hunting dog knows
that you do not feed your
dog before you go out
hunting with your dog.
>> REGINA: Because
they're not motivated.
>> SONG: They're not motivated.
Right.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> SONG: So these wolves are not
going to go out and kill other
dogs or kill children just
for the sake of killing.
They're not bloodthirsty.
>> REGINA: Right.
Now, I assume that with them
is where your ability-- and I
would assume with
the birds as well,
because you have such a
deep connection with birds,
your ability to begin
speaking with them
and understanding how they
speak and how they communicate.
>> SONG: Uh-huh.
Yeah, it's interesting,
because some people ask me
how do you learn the
language of animals,
which I call animal speak.
How do you learn it?
And the first thing
I tell them is
that we don't have to learn it,
because the code is imprinted
in our DNA.
We evolved with the animals.
We evolved with each other.
And there's this
nonverbal communication
that is occurring all the time.
It's occurring subconsciously.
And what we have to do is peel
off the layers of acculturation
that keep us from being
able to communicate.
So it's the reverse
of what people
consider to be almost an
academic endeavor to learn
another language.
You learn Spanish.
You learn Latin.
You learn animal speak.
No.
And it's a universal language.
It's occurring all the time.
All of the animals are
in constant communication
with each other,
as are the plants,
and the wind, the atmosphere.
Everything is
communicating, which
is why there is such beautiful
synchronicity in nature.
And we can be there too.
We can be attuned to that.
>> REGINA: In your book, you
talk about the fact that men
have lost their abilities more
so than women to go into this
more natural frame of mind.
Could you explain that to us?
Because we would tend
to flip it in our minds
that men are more oriented
toward nature and perhaps women
less so.
>> SONG: You'd think so.
Men are more oriented toward
nature in a domineering sense.
Women are more
oriented toward nature,
and toward their own
kind, I think, in more
of an interactive sense.
And I think that's just plain
pure biological programming.
There's also
cultural conditioning
and social realities,
which place
men in a specific
role in this culture,
and place women in a specific
role in this culture.
These boundaries are
eroding right now,
but it's still very predominant.
We have male leaders.
We have males who are
expected to be leads,
even though they are
biologically nurturers
or guardians.
They're still expected
to be assertive,
to get out there
and make a living,
to head up a family,
et cetera, et cetera.
So men have, I think, more
layers of conditioning
that they need to break through
than women do in general.
That's a very gross
generalization.
>> REGINA: Of course.
Yes.
>> SONG: The last thing I want
to do is to start pigeonholing
genders.
>> REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
Because that's all blending.
The lines are changing.
>> SONG: Exactly.
Yeah.
>> REGINA: And maybe to
bridge that part of the story,
you also went into training with
the-- how do I say it again--
Ojibwe.
>> SONG: Ojibwe.
>> REGINA: The Ojibwe elders.
Can you tell us a little
bit about how that happened
in your life and what you began
learning there that would then
translate into this work?
>> SONG: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> REGINA: And tell
us about the Ojibwe.
>> SONG: Uh-huh.
The Ojibwe people are a tribe
in the Algonquin culture.
Northeastern North America
is primarily Algonquin.
There's an interesting history
with the Algonquin people.
They're woodland people,
hunters, gatherers, very little
agriculture if any.
They live by fishing,
hunting, gathering wild rice,
gathering wild
berries and edibles.
And there's just a little
interesting back story here
in that the early
Norse people who
came over and landed
on the east coast
interacted with the
Algonquin people.
And the Ojibwe language now--
>> REGINA: That's what
I was just going to ask.
>> SONG: You were.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
So go ahead, please.
>> SONG: Oh, it's a
fascinating story.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> SONG: There are Norse
words, old Germanic words,
embedded in the
Algonquin languages.
The five clans, the
five Algonquin clans,
are the same as the five Norse
clans, the ancient Norse clans.
The sweat lodge ceremony
that is practiced
in the Northeastern part
of the country is actually,
you might say, the
preservation of the early sauna
tradition in Europe.
So there's a lot of
cross-cultural pollination
that was going on there.
And I remember my grandmother,
my German grandmother.
She would talk about her noggin.
If I bumped my head when I was
a kid, oh, you hurt your noggin.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SONG: And the term for a
bowl in the Ojibwe language is
[OJIBWE].
And I see a ceremonial
crossover there,
because skulls are used
as ceremonial receptacles
and there's the same term.
Now, I haven't confirmed
this with any linguists,
but I just see
these relationships.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> SONG: It just
seems so obvious.
>> REGINA: So now, back to
your relationship with them.
What age were you roughly?
And what was your motive
for your training with them?
And what did you learn?
>> SONG: It started early.
I was probably seven
or eight years of age.
My dad would not come
straight home from work.
He would stop at the bar and
he'd be there a couple hours
and come home.
One day he brought a Native
man home from the bar,
and he was going to
have supper with us.
And I was a kid.
We were playing cowboys
and Indians in the yard,
and I was just fascinated with--
>> REGINA: You had
a real live Indian.
>> SONG: Yeah, a real live
Indian at supper, yet.
And I peppered him
with questions.
And he answered some
of my questions.
And sometimes he
would just smile.
And my dad said, hey, why
don't you just let him eat?
And OK, I thought that
would be all right.
Yet, the seed was planted.
There were real live Indians.
It wasn't just cowboys
and Indians on television,
you know.
So as I grew up, I
studied Native life way.
I went to college and took
anthropology and psychology
and botany classes.
And I learned about
native plants,
the native uses of plants.
And I started to spend
time on the reservations,
and I got to know the elders.
Two of the several times that
I dropped out of college,
I hitchhiked around
the country looking
for Native elders who
still practiced some
of their old traditional ways.
And I apprenticed to them
to learn about anything they
would like to share with me.
And this all relates to my
earlier story about my life
with animals.
And I saw the Native
people as being animals.
And here's part of the
disconnect, I think,
that we civilized people
experience, which is why we are
not attuned to nature speak.
Which is why we use the Earth
as a garbage can, essentially.
We are not in relationship
with our surroundings anymore.
And what I learned
from them is, first
of all that I am an animal.
Biologically, I'm an animal.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> SONG: My DNA,
it's animal DNA.
My needs, my wants and desires,
are the same as any animal's
needs, wants, and desires.
There's really no difference.
And that helped me to relax
around the distinctions
that I was forced to grow
up with about civilization
and nature, about my nature
and nature out there.
I learned from these elders
that my nature is nature.
There is no difference.
There is no distinction.
So I did not have to
be ashamed of my desire
to be with animals
more than humans,
because these animals were more
human than these humans were,
as I saw it.
>> REGINA: They were acting in
a more logical rhythm of life
in every way.
And they were in
deeper communication.
And you talk about this in your
book, about just our thought
processes alone that you
have to merge with the animal
and essentially
merge minds in order
to be able to communicate
with animals, speak with them,
understand them.
And yet we have
this block of using
mostly words with our
minds, and projecting words.
Thinking in these symbolic
terms instead of natural terms.
And you were an educated man.
So how did this process
begin for you, then,
to really start understanding
the nuances of what
it means to merge with an animal
and merge with an animal mind?
>> SONG: This is neat, because
several threads came together
here.
There was my relationship
with animals and nature.
There was my
fascination with Zen,
which I picked up at an
early age and followed
and still follow.
And there was what
I was learning
from the native elders.
And all of this was merging and
speaking about consciousness.
What is consciousness?
And it seemed as though there
was a contradiction here,
because in order to be
immersed in nature, in order
to be who I truly am, I
needed to be unconscious.
I needed to strip away
any semblance of self.
And it wasn't a denial or
suppression of who I am
or how I am by any means.
But it was a merging
of a one into the all.
A beautiful example is the
prey predator relationship.
A wolf will stalk a deer.
And if the wolf says, I'm
a wolf, and I'm hungry,
and I'm going to kill that
deer, the deer is going
to pick up on that
energy and bolt.
And it's not going to work.
The wolf has to forget about
everything that the wolf came
here for and become the hunt.
>> REGINA: And is
that what they do?
>> SONG: That's what they do.
>> REGINA: And by
the same token,
you say in the book that
from the deer's end,
there can be a wolf
in the vicinity,
but they can also merge with the
wolf and know that the wolf is
not hungry.
>> SONG: This is nature speak.
Deer can pick this up.
They just--
>> REGINA: And they'll
know not to be afraid.
>> SONG: They'll know
not to be afraid,
even though there's
a wolf there.
Wolf does not mean terror,
does not mean death,
unless the wolf is
hungry and hunting.
>> REGINA: And so they're
automatically merging with each
other's field of
intelligence all the time.
>> SONG: Yes.
Yeah.
During the hunt, the
wolf and the deer
forget about who they are.
They become the hunt.
They become this dynamic.
They are in relationship,
and they need each other.
They literally feed
off of each other.
The deer herd does
not stay healthy
if the wolf is not hunting
the deer, and vice versa.
So there's this interplay.
And there is fear
during a hunt, for sure.
There's terror.
There's death.
There's trauma.
However, they would not
have it any other way,
if they could make a choice.
>> REGINA: Is that what you came
to understand when you began
merging with their
consciousness?
>> SONG: Yes.
It just is.
Death isn't good.
Death isn't bad.
The hunt isn't good or bad.
I no longer judge hunters.
I had thought for a long time
that hunters, these men who
go out with their
guns and shoot deer
and they don't
understand the deer,
they don't have a
relationship with their prey.
I judged them.
This is bad.
Now, if you need the
deer to feed your family,
that's another story.
But if you're just going out
for the sport of the hunt,
forget it.
Once I understood what goes
on in the psyche of a hunter,
I had an entirely different
feeling toward hunters.
>> REGINA: Did you feel that
somehow the act of human
hunting animal was mimicking
that natural cycle of the wolf
and the deer?
>> SONG: We evolved as hunters.
Early in human
evolution, my studies
have shown me that
we started probably
as primarily vegetarians,
as forest primates.
When we moved out
into the savanna,
we followed the packs
of the predators,
and started
scavenging, actually.
We started eating
meat as scavengers,
probably because pre-humans
were very small, very frail,
in comparison with the
other carnivores who
are out there hunting.
So we followed the
other predators around.
>> REGINA: Ate their spoils.
>> SONG: Ate their spoils,
the marrow from the bones,
any scrap that they left behind.
And we gradually
learned to hunt.
And we gradually became
a cooperative species
through the hunt.
Just as a pack of wolves has
to be very coordinated to hunt,
we learned to be very
coordinated to hunt.
We were frail as individuals.
However, as a pack,
we were strong.
So this probably contributed
vastly to our human evolution,
toward becoming bipedal,
toward becoming taller,
toward our large
cranial capacity.
In order to coordinate
for the hunt.
>> REGINA: And yet at the
same time you can see a kind
of distinct difference
between hunters in terms
of the motivations of one
hunter versus the other,
where if there is just dominance
that's the concern, you know,
that's one mentality.
Versus one that is more
in companionship, a need.
Right?
>> SONG: Yeah, very much so.
>> REGINA: And the
animal kingdom can sense
the difference in this too.
>> SONG: Yes.
Yes.
Very easily.
You notice when-- perhaps
you experience this yourself.
When you go out in the woods
or the prairie or the lake
shore, wherever you go,
and you want to go out.
And you want to see the birds
and see the other animals.
And everything gets quiet.
They disappear.
They pick up on the
fact that you are out
of place and out of sync.
Now, that is not because we are
there, but because of the way
we're there.
What we civilized
people typically do,
if there's a hill, we will
climb to the top of the hill,
because we want a view.
We want this vantage point.
Well, we stick out
like sore thumbs there.
And all the animals
pick it up, and they--
>> REGINA: They split.
>> SONG: They split.
Now, if we become a
shadow and walk around
the perimeter of the hill,
in the shadows of the trees,
and we look out, we're
going to see so much more.
Everybody is aware of this.
If you're walking down
a city street at night,
you can look into lit
windows very easily.
You can look in from
the shadow to the light.
But the people inside cannot
look out from the light
to the shadow.
Duh.
It's common sense.
We just don't realize it.
So if we carry this awareness--
we have the knowledge already.
If we just apply it to our time
in nature, it's going to work.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
And you mentioned
this a moment ago,
that in the hunt, of
course, there's fear.
There's terror.
There's death.
And you state in the book we
have a romanticized notion
of what nature is.
We think oh, god, in nature
everything's at peace
and nature is
intrinsically peaceful.
And you're saying, no nature
is not intrinsically peaceful.
Everything is
constantly communicating
and in that is always a
sense of being on alert, too.
>> SONG: Always.
Even when an animal is napping
or sleeping, an animal's alert.
It's something that I learned
with guardian training.
I teach a class where I teach
guardian warrior skills.
One exercise we train for is
to wake up at any point in time
in the night and
know what time it is
and remember the
relationship from when
I went to bed to this
particular point in time.
What might have
transpired at this time
so that I can be
on instant alert,
and I can respond to
an emergency situation,
for example.
And animals are
always in this place.
What do we do when
we go to sleep?
First of all, we tune
out the outside world.
We're not attuned to it.
Sometimes, we'll read a book
or watch a video or something
and we fall asleep
to that in our minds,
rather than clearing our minds.
Rather than becoming attuned
to what's going on around us
and drifting off as this
shadow within a shadow.
And then if we do that, if
we wake up in the night,
we're instantly attuned to
what is going on around us.
So we are disconnected.
We have this
intrinsic disconnect.
>> REGINA: Well, I think I'm
probably one of the worst
examples of it, in that I like
to sleep with all the windows
open, and doors ideally too.
And love to feel
the air, but I've
gotten to where I
really don't do well
with the sound of the coyotes
killing the bunnies at night,
and the screams and
howls and so forth.
I find it very upsetting.
So I started sleeping
with earplugs.
>> SONG: Oh boy.
I understand.
It's is a tough one
for a lot of people.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SONG: It just makes my
hair stand on end when I hear
a rabbit screaming in the night.
An owl grabs a rabbit.
>> REGINA: Hate it.
Yeah.
>> SONG: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And I hear it a lot.
So I just thought, OK,
this is waking me up.
And now I'm awake
and feeling sad.
So just put some ear
plugs in if you're
going to leave all the
doors and windows open.
>> SONG: Sure.
Yeah.
I encourage you to
just be with it,
because you're going
to feel OK with it.
Yes, it's stressful.
Yes, it's traumatizing
for the animals involved.
This is life.
We're so protected.
We're so isolated from the
means and ends of our existence
that we don't feel this.
We don't sense this anymore.
And what do we do?
We need stress in our lives.
We need this type of stress.
So we go out and we create it.
You know, we're skydiving.
We're rafting down wild rivers.
We need it.
It stimulates the system.
There's a joy in it.
There's a joy in trauma,
believe it or not.
>> REGINA: And when you then
back up from that notion that
nature is intrinsically
not peaceful,
I guess you have to keep
backing up and to say this is
a holistic system.
So in the end, all is
at peace within that,
even though its
own life may have
to be given to the situation.
>> SONG: Exactly.
Yeah.
There's peace in turmoil.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> SONG: It's yin and yang.
You have to have both.
>> REGINA: OK.
And so let's talk
about what you do
when you take a city
slicker, you know,
you take someone out, somebody
who's totally stressed out.
They find you.
They find your work.
And they want to start going
into union with nature.
Well, how does that
usually start out?
Well, aside from
the natural rhythms
we didn't talk about, which
is the whole notion of going
to bed early, waking up with
the birdsong, and et cetera,
how do you start
training people back
into relationship with nature?
>> SONG: Very simply.
The first thing I do is ask
them if they're wearing a watch.
I ask them to set
that out on the table.
their cell phone down.
If they have a GPS
device for orienteering,
I ask them to set
all that aside.
Because these are the crutches.
This is what keeps
us from relationship.
Even if they say, oh, I
won't look at my watch,
or I'll put it in my backpack,
and I'll turn off my device,
there is still
this inner knowing.
We know it's there.
We know we can resort to
it whenever we want to,
whenever we feel the need to.
And that short
circuits relationship.
It's a crutch, whether
we use it or not.
So it's very important to just
set those aside, leave them
back, and go out
there stripped naked.
Naked of all these accouterments
that are going to keep us
connected with civilization.
The second thing I
encourage people to do
is to listen and trust.
Just be open.
Most of our listening
is selective.
We hear what we want to hear.
We retain what we
want to retain.
In nature, that doesn't work.
We have to come from a
place of deep listening.
I'll give you an example.
Before I came, I was
sitting in my writing room,
finishing up a manuscript.
And outside my window--
the north woods
is right in my backyard,
the National Forest--
and there was a squirrel
sitting there on a fallen tree.
If a tree falls in
my yard, it stays.
I don't pick it up.
That's another story.
But the tree was laying
there, and the squirrel
was sitting on the fallen trunk
of the tree, flicking her tail.
And the reason squirrels flick
their tails is because tails
are expendable,
and heads aren't.
So if there's a
predator in the area,
the predator is going
to go for the movement.
>> REGINA: Oh, interesting.
I thought it was just because
they're agitated or something.
>> SONG: Well, it is
because they're agitated.
But--
>> REGINA: It has a purpose.
>> SONG: They show the
agitation for a purpose.
If you've seen a
lot of squirrels,
you've undoubtedly seen some
squirrels with short tails.
>> REGINA: Oh.
>> SONG: That is because the
predators go for movement.
And if they're not really
keyed into the animal,
they will go for
what's moving the most.
And they will go off with the
tail, but the squirrel lives.
So the squirrel was out
there flicking her tail.
And I knew something was up.
And our normal way of listening
is to go from A to B to C.
I want to hear something,
so I key into what
is making the noise.
And then I come to a rational
conclusion about what
this noise is all about.
Very linear thought process.
Well, that doesn't
work in nature,
because listening has
to be like a web, all
of this interconnection.
So here's this squirrel on
the trunk, flicking her tail.
And I realize that
something's up.
And I look up, and there's
a Blue Jay sitting up
on a branch.
There's a big red pine
outside the window.
And the Blue Jay is nervous.
And then the Blue
Jay starts calling.
And I realized there's
something else going on,
because the Blue Jay is
the harbinger of danger
in the woods.
The Blue Jays make
a loud racket.
>> REGINA: That loud call.
>> SONG: And I looked over, and
there was a Broad Winged Hawk
sitting a couple of trees over.
Not hunting at the time,
but these prey animals
are very nervous.
So here's this
interaction going on.
And if I just keyed
into the squirrel,
I would have missed
all the rest.
>> REGINA: Right
>> SONG: So this is what
I call deep listening.
It's not focusing on
what's making the sound
or what you want to make
the sound, such as you
if you see a bird, I want
to hear that bird song.
Well, why is that bird singing?
We have to pull it all together
and listen to everything.
>> REGINA: And when
you say listening,
you also mention in your
book, and devote a good amount
of time to it, the fact
that when you're dialing
into the bird community--
and that's one thing.
I do take my earplugs
out my morning
so I can hear the birds.
The cacophony of sounds.
So many birds.
Or a symphony, either way, of
so many birds in the morning.
And you say to really understand
the language of birds,
you should put your
ear plugs back in.
>> SONG: Yes.
For exactly that
reason, because we
are looking to key into
something and then identify it.
Bird watchers will take a
field guide out with them.
Oh, I want to
identify this bird.
Well, that's just slapping
a label on the bird.
That's not knowing the bird.
To know the bird is to know
the relationship of the bird
with the hoop of life
and the hoop of relations
that the bird is immersed in.
So in order to do that, we need
to put in ear plugs, literally.
I encourage people
to put in ear plugs.
>> REGINA: I know.
>> SONG: Because otherwise
we're satisfied right away.
I'm point A, and I
want point B in order
to come to a point C conclusion.
Once I have it, even though I'm
still there, I'm still present,
I'm not fully attuned to
what else is going on.
>> REGINA: So you're
saying more to watch them?
>> SONG: Yes.
To watch them, and also to
watch the interactions, just as
the example I gave
of the squirrel.
Because that tells us a whole
lot more about the bird, about
the bird's personality,
about whether the bird
has a mate or not, whether
the bird is feeding young
or not, than just
listening to the bird song.
>> REGINA: And there's another
bird story in there you have
about you were
calling to the ravens,
or chatting with
the ravens vocally.
And you started noticing
what was going on by way
of that human interface.
>> SONG: Oh, this is amazing.
I was working on bird
research at Cornell University
in Ithaca, New York for a while.
And they have a tremendous
library of bird songs.
And they have all the
bird songs categorized.
Each species has a Warning
call, a Mating call,
and five or six different
general categories.
And I attempted to
apply this to ravens.
And I got to know one family
of ravens where I used to live.
And I knew their specific
calls for various reasons.
And I moved 80 miles
away, and I got
to know another
family of ravens.
And I was totally
confused, because they
had entirely different calls
fulfilling the same functions,
the same reasons.
And I realized that these
are not just rote animals
functioning--
>> REGINA: They have dialect.
>> SONG: Yes.
There are languages here.
And these languages are
passed down in the families,
just like our languages, just
like our various languages.
They're not simple
animals who are just
doing knee jerk reactions here.
These are thinking,
feeling, caring animals,
and they're interactive animals.
And they can learn and adapt
and adjust just like we can.
>> REGINA: So this is
maybe a little off topic,
but it's an experience I had.
And I was wondering about
the notion of telepathy
with animals.
And I was out in the desert
walking on one of my paths
out in Sedona.
And I was thinking
through something.
And I came upon a solution.
And I thought, oh, that's good.
That's good.
And just as I
thought that's good,
my field must have
opened up or something,
because three ravens flew
overhead and cawed three times
as they flew over me.
So in your bird
speak, would that
be some kind of
telepathic connection
or empathetic connection
or what would that be?
>> SONG: There is this
relationship there.
And every once in a while,
our consciousness opens up,
and we get a glimpse.
And we call it an intuitive
impulse, or divine message,
or whatever, our guardian
angel speaking to us.
It doesn't matter what
label we place upon it.
This is occurring all the time
in our limbic process, which
is our animal mind,
our deeper mind,
which as neuroscience
research is discovering now,
is where 95% to 99% percent
of our mental processing
is going on.
We are just not
consciously aware of it.
So when something breaks
through like this,
we think, oh, I
had an inspiration.
Well, it was always there.
It was occurring
already, simultaneously
with their conscious process.
So and--
>> REGINA: That's
just a validation.
>> SONG: Exactly.
It's just a validation.
Yeah.
>> REGINA: Yeah
>> SONG: And it's an
important validation.
This has a whole lot to
do with Native people
and their relationship
with animals.
Their very intimate relationship
with animals as animal guides.
There's this
communication going on,
and when they
receive confirmation,
or they receive guidance,
they can trust in it,
because they know that this
is the real communication.
This is nature speak.
This is the ultimate reality.
>> REGINA: And so that goes
hand-in-hand with the notion
of having totem animals.
>> SONG: Yes.
Same thing.
>> REGINA: And each person
innately has one that
they're uniquely in
relationship with,
whether they know it or not?
Or is that something
that's more a process
of their own selection?
>> SONG: There can
be animal helpers,
but what I learned from the
elders is that we each have one
animal with whom
we share in spirit.
And we're born with
that relationship.
And whether we are consciously
aware of it or not,
it's there, because it's
happening on this deeper level.
And when we get
these glimpses of it,
this is why you see
an animal sometimes,
and you just feel some sense of
relatedness with this animal.
There's something there.
And what the elders
showed me to do
in terms of consciously
learning who my animal guide is,
is to look at these
synchronicities
and see that there's a
pattern going on here.
This isn't just some
random occurrence.
And when it happens
with the same animal
three or four times
in unique situations,
there's probably
something there.
>> REGINA: So what
is your totem,
if you don't mind my asking?
Your animal guide?
>> SONG: Owl.
>> REGINA: Owl.
OK.
And do the Natives that are
used to working in this realm,
can they also identify
that in someone else?
Where they see someone, they
can see their animal guide?
>> SONG: Yes, but it's
a dangerous thing to do,
partly because of the
power of suggestion.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> SONG: I work with some people
as a guide who are looking
for their animal guide.
They want to know.
And if I were to say anything
to them, because they're
coming to me as a guide,
the power of suggestion
is very strong.
And there will be an imprint.
And they'll think,
well, maybe he knows.
And maybe I should listen
to what he has to say.
And the journey of discovery is
very much a personal journey.
And what I really need to
do is to step back and act
as a catalyst to
help that person
to discover his or her
relationship with his or her
animal guide in his own
way, in his own time,
so that it is authentic.
So that it is personalized.
>> REGINA: So let's say we're
out in nature with you now,
and you're having us go into our
experiential type of thought,
beyond words, which a lot of
people lose their bearings
there.
There's nothing to
hold onto, as you say.
>> SONG: Yeah.
Yeah, in Zen practice it would
be called entering the void.
There's nothing concrete.
There's nothing known.
We have to just
let go and trust,
trust in whatever is or isn't.
It's the only way.
>> REGINA: And then you go into
the notion of seeing versus
looking.
>> SONG: Yeah.
Yeah, there's a difference
between focused vision
and peripheral vision.
With focused vision I'm
looking for something
that fits this catalog of
images I have in my mind.
If I see an animal, I'm
looking through my catalog
to identify that animal.
Now, with peripheral
vision, with deeper vision,
that's not important,
because that animal may not
be why I am looking in
that particular direction.
That animal may have moved.
But, again, there's
something bigger going on.
Why did that animal move?
What's going on here?
It's the relationship.
And here's where a deeper
vision can connect us
with this-- I call it intimate.
This is true intimacy.
This intimate relationship
that's going on.
And I can be part and parcel
to that, rather than just
an observer, if I would just
back up and quit cataloging,
quit identifying, quit
labeling, and just
be a presence within
the greater presence.
>> REGINA: And that leads us
into the notion of knowing
about something, versus knowing.
>> SONG: Yes.
Yeah, I oftentimes use
the example of let's say
I'm a young single
guy and I'm out
looking to create a
relationship with a woman.
And I meet somebody at a dance.
And I say, oh, I'm really
interested in getting
to know you better.
Just stay right there,
I'm going to go home now,
and I'm going to see
if you're on Facebook.
And I'm going to blah blah blah.
And I'm going to do some
research on you, essentially.
>> REGINA: Which is
what is done now.
>> SONG: Which is what
is done, unfortunately.
Yeah, we're getting
further and further away
from authentic
relationship, I think.
Rather than saying,
hey, let's be.
Let's be in each
other's presence.
Let's see what happens
>> REGINA: And so, when it
applies to nature, it's the--
>> SONG: Same thing.
>> REGINA: Going in nature
versus going to the library
and learning about nature.
>> SONG: Yeah.
Yeah.
Same thing.
>> REGINA: OK.
So let's say now we're
out in the woods with you,
and we've left all
these devices behind.
You do something called
shadowing, right?
Can you tell us what that is?
>> SONG: Shadowing is becoming
a movement within the greater
movement.
It's the example I gave
earlier about going up
to the top of the hill.
Well--
>> REGINA: You don't
want to do that.
>> SONG: You don't
You want to not only
move in the shadows,
but you want to become a shadow.
When the trees bend in the
wind, this is a time to move,
because my movement is
going to be disguised
by the movement of the trees.
The sound of my moving
is going to be disguised
by the fluttering leaves.
When the trees stop
moving, I stop moving.
It's the same when I'm
tracking an animal.
When that animal's
moving, I move,
because I'm a movement within
the greater movement again.
If the animal moves
first and stops,
the animal is in a
state of alertness
when the animal stops.
That's not a time
for me to move.
I need to freeze as well, so
I'm shadowing that animal.
I'm showing that
animals movements.
And while I'm doing
that, I'm picking up
on the animal's needs and
desires and motivations
for doing what the
animal is doing.
I'm starting to gain a sense
for where the animal is going
and why the animal's
going there,
and whether the animal is
feeling courageous or fearful,
whether the animal's
thirsty or hungry.
Maybe the animal is going
down to a stream to drink.
I pick that up.
I sense that, and I
know where we're going.
And I can become all the
more a shadow of that animal.
So this is how I get into the
animal's mind, you might say,
so that I can feel the
animal's deep motivations,
feel her feelings.
>> REGINA: And I would
think this would take you
into a state of timelessness.
>> SONG: There is
no time in the void.
There just is.
There's not even a
past and a future.
I just see it as a continuum.
It's just this continuum of
movement within the greater
movement.
>> REGINA: Is this one of
the more beneficial aspects
of going into
relationship with nature,
to remove us from that
direct linear flow of time
in our lives that
we're all slaves to?
>> SONG: I think it's
tremendously therapeutic.
One reason we get stressed
is because there is
no stress release in our lives.
We get up in the morning
to an alarm clock, those
of us who have 9:00 to 5:00
jobs, same time every morning.
We have a certain amount
of time to take a shower,
get something to eat, get on
the freeway to get to work.
And right away at work
we have specific tasks.
And we have people to answer to.
And then we go home
at night, and we might
have our family waiting for us.
We have kids to interact with.
And we have a partner.
And then we go to sleep and do
the same thing all over again.
It's chronic.
>> REGINA: That
sounds depressing.
>> SONG: Yeah.
So many people do it in various
and sundry ways, of course.
But that's what
it boils down to.
So there's no stress release.
And this is because we
are living a linear life
with a past, present,
and a future.
Every movement, every
decision we make
is based upon what
happened in the past
and how we can project that
into the future for a better
outcome.
Well, if we can get away
from all of that and just be,
we're going to have a better
outcome in the future anyway,
without worrying about it,
without stressing about it.
And we are going to have
continual stress release,
because there's not
going to be the buildup--
>> REGINA: Yes.
The relief of that.
Just to be in the moment,
responding to everything
around you.
>> SONG: Yes.
Time consciousness is stress.
We can step aside from that.
>> REGINA: And that's
what nature gives us.
>> SONG: The stress disappears.
That's what nature gives us.
>> REGINA: So we only have
a couple minutes left.
When you see people coming that
are-- they're stressed out.
They've heard about you.
They just want some relief
from their own lives.
They love nature, but don't
know quite what to do with it.
How long does-- and I
know everyone's different.
How long can it take for
someone to essentially come in
from the city, just put their
watch down, and then move
into some kind of
harmony with nature?
>> SONG: It usually it takes
three or four days on average.
For some people,
a little faster,
for some slower, but right
around three or four days.
Yet, I encourage people
not to worry about that.
I encourage people just
to commune where you are.
Now a good example is
Christine, the woman
who illustrated my last book.
She lives in Brooklyn on the
sixth floor of this high rise
apartment.
>> REGINA: Wow.
You wouldn't know
it from her artwork.
>> SONG: No, you wouldn't.
And that's because
nature is right there.
She looks out her window.
There are flower pots
on the balconies.
There are birds and
butterflies and bees
coming to those flowers.
She writes a nature column based
on her wild life observations
in Brooklyn, believe it or not.
>> REGINA: Wonderful.
>> SONG: Nature is everywhere.
>> REGINA: It's everywhere.
>> SONG: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Well, thank
you so much for your time
and your beautiful ability
to articulate these themes.
And I know I can feel
a thirst in people just
listening to you about
wanting to go out and start
communing in an entirely
different way than what we've
been doing.
So thank you for your book, and
your efforts, and your life.
>> SONG: It's my pleasure.
Thank you for having me.
>> REGINA: So if you're
feeling disconnected from life,
perhaps the solution is
right outside your front door
or window, or a car ride away.
To learn more about
to Tamarack's book,
"Becoming Nature,"
you can pick up a copy
through major booksellers.
Until next time, thank you
for joining us here on Gaia.
[THEME MUSIC]